{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 print('''                                                                        COVID-19 SELF CHECK AND GUIDANCE TOOL         \
                                                                        -------------------------------------''')\
print()\
print("Welcome to our program. We are here to help you. Kindly enter your information below and we will provide guidelines for you to follow.")\
print()\
\
def user_information():\
    \
            name=input("NAME: ")\
            \
            travel=input("Have you recently traveled within the last 14 days? ")\
            if travel=='yes' or travel=='YES' or travel=='Yes':\
                contact=input("Have you been in contact with someone known to have corona virus? ")\
                print()\
                if contact=='yes' or contact=='YES' or contact=='Yes':\
                    isolation_criteria()\
                \
            else:\
                contact=input("Have you been in contact with someone who has traveled and is now sick? ")\
                print()\
                if contact=='yes' or contact=='YES' or contact=='Yes':\
                    isolation_criteria()\
            print()\
def isolation_criteria():\
    i=input("Are you currently in isolation? ")\
    print()\
    if i=='no' or i=='NO' or i=='No':\
      print('''*********************************************************************************************\
-If you have symptoms of coronavirus, you'll usually need to self-isolate for at least 7 days.\
\
If you live with someone who has symptoms, you'll usually need to self-isolate for 14 days.\
\
If someone in your support bubble has symptoms, you'll usually need to self-isolate for 14 days.\
***********************************************************************************************''')\
      print()\
      proceed=int(input("If you have read the above guidelines enter 1 to proceed "))\
   \
\
def symptoms_types():\
            print('''Are u experiencing any of the following symptoms?\
            ----------------------\
            1.Most common symptoms:\
            ----------------------\
            -fever\
            -dry cough\
            -tiredness\
            ----------------------\
            2.Less common symptoms:\
            ----------------------\
            -diarrhea\
            -conjunctivitis\
            -headache\
            -loss of taste or smell\
            -a rash on skin, or discolouration of fingers or toes\
            -------------------\
            3.Serious symptoms:\
            -------------------\
            -difficulty breathing or shortness of breath\
            -chest pain or pressure\
            -loss of speech or movement\
            --------------------\
            4.NONE OF THE ABOVE\
            --------------------''')\
            print()\
\
\
def symptom_mostcommon():\
\
            age=int(input("Enter your age: "))\
            temp=float(input("Enter your current body temperature (degree celsius): "))\
            print()\
            if (age>=18 and temp>=39) or (age<18 and temp>=38):\
                \
                print('''*************************************************************\
TREATING A HIGH TEMPERATURE\
---------------------------\
-get lots of rest\
-drink plenty of fluids (water is best) to avoid dehydration\
-take paracetamol or ibuprofen if you feel uncomfortable\
*************************************************************''')\
            else:\
                print("You have a normal body temperature. You do not have fever.")\
            print()\
            c=input("Do you have cough? ")\
            print()\
            if c=='yes' or c=='YES' or c=='Yes':\
                \
                print('''*******************************************************************************************************\
TREATING A COUGH\
----------------\
-If you have a cough, it's best to avoid lying on your back. Lie on your side or sit upright instead.\
-To help ease a cough, try having a teaspoon of honey. \
-If this does not help, you could contact a pharmacist for advice about cough treatments.\
*******************************************************************************************************''')\
            print()\
            t=input("Have you experienced excessive tiredness lately? ")\
            print()\
            if t=='yes' or t=='YES' or t=='Yes':\
             print('''**********************************************\
HOW TO DEAL WITH TIREDNESSS\
---------------------------\
-Eat often and try to maintain a balance diet\
-Make sure you are getting 7-8 hours of sleep\
-Reduce stress to boost energy\
-Cut out caffeine\
-Drink more water\
**********************************************''')\
             print()\
\
def symptom_lesscommon():\
    d=input("Have you been experiencing diarrhea? ")\
    print()\
    if d=='yes' or d=='YES' or d=='Yes':\
        print('''*************************************************************************************\
To help you cope with your signs and symptoms until the diarrhea goes away, try to:\
Drink plenty of clear liquids, including water, broths and juices.\
Avoid caffeine.\
Add semisolid and low-fiber foods gradually as your bowel movements return to normal.\
*************************************************************************************''')\
    print()\
    c=input("Have you noticed having a pink eye lately? ")\
    print()\
    if c=='yes' or c=='YES' or c=='Yes':\
        print("You are likely to have Conjunctivits. Contact your doctor who may prescribe an antibiotic, usually given typically as eye drops or ointment, for bacterial conjunctivitis.")\
    print()\
    h=input("Are you experiencing headaches more often than usual? ")\
    print()\
    if h=='yes' or h=='YES' or h=='Yes':\
        print('''***********************************************************************************************************\
Seek emergency care if you have:\
\
A very severe, sudden headache\
Headache after a head injury or fall\
Fever, stiff neck, rash, seizure, double vision, weakness, numbness or difficulty speaking\
Pain that worsens despite treatment\
These symptoms suggest a more serious condition, so it's important to get a prompt diagnosis and treatment.\
***********************************************************************************************************''')\
    print()\
    r=input("Have you noticed rashes on your skin lately? ")\
    print()\
    if r=='yes' or r=='YES' or r=='Yes':\
        m=input("Have you also noticed discolouration ofyour fingers or toes? ")\
        print()\
        if m=='yes' or m=='YES' or m=='Yes':\
            print("Contact a dermatologist who can help you determine the cause of discolouration")\
        else: \
            print('''***********************************************************************************************************************************************************************************\
Contact the nearest dermatologist. One of the fastest and easiest ways to stop the pain and itch of a rash is to apply cold.\
Whether you choose a cold compress, cool showers, or damp cloth, cold water can bring immediate relief and can help stop swelling, ease itching, and slow the progression of a rash.\
***********************************************************************************************************************************************************************************''')\
        \
\
def symptom_serious():\
    print('''***************************************************************\
We strongly recommend you to seek immediate medical attention.\
Call for an ambulance from the nearest hospital.\
Avoid contact with anyone including family members.\
Self-isolate yourself until you are provided medical assistance.\
***************************************************************''')\
 \
     \
def symptom_none():\
    print('''***************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************\
Since you do not have any of the above symptoms you are not a COVID-19 patient but we advice you to protect yourself and others around you by knowing the facts and taking appropriate precautions.\
Follow the advice provided by your local public health agency.\
\
To prevent the spread of COVID-19:\
---------------------------------\
-Clean your hands often. Use soap and water, or an alcohol-based hand rub.\
-Maintain a safe distance from anyone who is coughing or sneezing.\
-Don\'92t touch your eyes, nose or mouth.\
-Cover your nose and mouth with your bent elbow or a tissue when you cough or sneeze.\
-Stay home if you feel unwell.\
-If you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention. Call in advance.\
-Follow the directions of your local health authority.\
-Avoiding unneeded visits to medical facilities allows healthcare systems to operate more effectively, therefore protecting you and others.\
***************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************''')\
    \
\
def concluding_statement():\
    print()\
    print("We hope this program was helpful. Ensure you are taking good care of yourself.")\
    print()\
    print("                                                         A HEALTHY ATTITUDE IS CONTAGIOUS BUT DON'T WAIT TO CATCH IT FROM OTHERS. BE A CARRIER.")\
    print("                                                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------")\
\
#OUTPUT\
user_information()\
symptoms_types()\
symp=int(input("(kindly enter the number under which category your symptoms fall): "))\
print()\
\
while True: \
    if symp==1:\
        symptom_mostcommon()\
        concluding_statement()\
        break\
    elif symp==2:\
        symptom_lesscommon()\
        concluding_statement()\
        break\
    elif symp==3:\
        symptom_serious()\
        break\
    elif symp==4:\
        symptom_none()\
        concluding_statement()\
        break\
    else:\
        print("Kindly enter a valid choice: ")\
        continue\
}